# Detection-of-COVID-19-VICTIMS

# About COVID-19
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.  Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness. The COVID-19 virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes. And currently no vaccine is available against this disease.
So its very important to detect those patients and separate them from healthy person. Detection can be done using the tests, tests can be swab test or blood test. Swab test results take approx. 5-6 hours whereas blood test can take 2-3 hours. These test can also be very costly until the manufacturing of low-cost methods of test. But the main issue is to decrease the amount of time for detecting the patients. Now, in this project we are using X-ray image of chest to detect corona virus patient. We are using the fact that corona virus attacks lungs and create suffocation, this is because this virus fills the lungs with fluids. This fluid can be observe by the image of a COVID-19 patient’s lung X-RAY image. According to a study, this virus attacks lower and upper part of lungs equally as compared to few other virus(like SARS virus) who attacks only lower part of lungs. So such differences can be used to differentiate corona virus from other virus infections. Humans currently may not quickly get these differences but complex networks like CNN can find these differences and help us in getting those differences.

# Project Relevance
We are using the images of X-Ray of lungs (Chest) of people to identify the COVID-19 affected people. This has been done using CNN, which distinguishes the images of COVID 19 infected people’s chest X-Ray with those of the others (non-infected) people. This method is implemented as it is a quick corona positive detection method and also, it is cheaper enough to support many countries including the poorer, at the time of pandemic crisis. This model does not try to replace the existing lab testing methods but it is an attempt to help the existing infrastructure to detect more patients quickly. One can run this model on those suspected cases, if this model points out that a patient might be corona virus positive then he/she must undergo lab testing and while the results come, he/she must be quarantine.
